---
prev: 
    text: "December 09, 2023"
    link: "/Reading/arXiv/2023/December/2023-12-09"
next: false
---

# arXiv reading on December 20, 2023

## 1. [CEERS: Increasing Scatter along the Star-Forming Main Sequence Indicates Early Galaxies Form in Bursts](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10152)

### 1.1 Cosmic star-formation history

- 1. Star-formation history (SFH) of galaxies are relatively smooth from $z=6$ to $z=1$.
- 2. The cosmic star-formation-rate (SFR) density grows from the earliest redshifts ($z\approx 6$), peaks around $z\sim 2$, and declines to the present day <a href="http://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-astro-081811-125615"> (Madau & Dickinson 2014) </a>.
- 3. Such evolution is supported b the evolution of the relation between the SFR and stellar mass of galaxies (the star-forming main sequence, SFMS).

## 2. [Star Formation and Dust in the Cosmic Web](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10146)

### 2.1 Main results

- 1. > A strong impact of the environment only for galaxies with $M_{\star}\lesssim 10^{10.8}~M_{\odot}$: the less dense the environment, the larger the star formation rate and dust content at fixed stellar mass.
- 2. Galaxies with $M_{\star}\gtrsim 10^{10.8}~M_{\odot}$: the environmental effect is milder due to the disc instability driven supermassive black hole growth.

## 3. [Ubiquitous radio emission in quasars: predominant AGN origin and a connection to jets, dust and winds](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10177)

### 3.1 Main results

- 1. The primary source of radio emission in quasars is the AGN not star formation.
- 2. A model in which the compact radio emission observed in quasars originates in compact radio jets and their interaction with a dusty and circumnuclear environment is favored.

### 3.2 Possible origins of the radio emission

- 1. Synchrontron emission from star-formation regions, which is generated by the interaction of high-energy elctrons plasma from supernova events and the magnetic field. Consequently, this kind of radio emission is directly related to massive star formation at galactic scales.
- 2. Origanates from the AGN. The scale is smaller.

## 4. [Probing Shocked Ejecta in SN 1987A: A novel diagnostic approach using XRISM-Resolve](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11129)

### 4.1 Main topic

- 1. The X-ray emission comes from the shocked circumstellar medium (CSM) or stems from the shocked ejecta?
- 2. The shocked ejecta shapes the X-ray emission spectrum and increase the line widths well above the values observed so far.

### 4.2 Introduction

- 1. The supernova remnant is located in a highly inhomogeneous circumstellar medium (CSM), which is  characterized by a dense and clumpy equatorial ring (ER) structure embedded within a diffuse H II region.
- 2. The X-ray emission has increased in the following about 25 yrs after the explosion.
- 3. The soft X-ray emission (0.5−2 keV) is decreasing, while the harder component (3 − 8 keV) continues to increase in the past few years.

## 5. [Ionized X-ray winds in the radio galaxy Mrk 6](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11167)

### 5.1 Introduction

- 1. The definition of ionization parameter $\xi$ is $\xi=L_{\rm ion}/n_{\rm H}r^2$, where $L_{\rm ion}$ is the ionizing luminosity, $n_{\rm H}$ is the hydrogen number density, and $r$ is the distance from the ionizing source.
- 2. The definiton of radio loud/quiet AGN.
- 3. >Jets are presumed to be magnetically powered

## 6. [Impact of radiative feedback on the initial mass function of metal-poor stars](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.13339)

<span style="color:red; font-size: 30px">Keep an eye on this paper</span>

### 6.1 Abstract

- 1. There are a series of long-term radiatio hydrodynamic simulations of star cluster formation with metallicity varying from $Z=10^{-4}~Z_{\odot}$ to $Z=1~Z_{\odot}$.
- 2. The initial mass function (IMF) switches from a Salpeter-like IMF to a top-heavy IMF when the metallicity decreases. The IMF becomes log-flat when $Z\lesssim 10^{-2}~Z_{\odot}$.
- 3. Stellar feedback is effective in shaping the IMF in both low-mass and high-mass regimes.
Heating of dust grains by stellar radiation suppresses the formation of low-mass stars ($M_{*}\lesssim 1~M_{\odot}$) at all metallicites by hindering the small-scale fragmentation.
The ionizing radiation suppresses the growth of massive stars, thus steepening the slope of the IMF at the high-mass end.
- 4. The star formation efficiency (SFE) increases as the metallicity increases.
- 5. The unexpectedly large number UV-bright galaxies at $z>10$ found by JWST can be explained by taking star cluster formation at $Z\sim 10^{-2}~Z_{\odot}$ or $Z\sim 10^{-3}~Z_{\odot}$, at which the IMF is top-heavy, but the SFE is not too low due to stellar feedback.

### 6.2 Introduction

- 1. The IMF deterimines the proportions of stars with different masses when they enter the main sequence.
- 2. The feedback of massive stars has a major impact on the environment.
- 3. The typical stellar mass in the primordial universe is estimated to about $10-100~M_{\odot}$. On the opposite, the typical stellar mass in the present-day universe is about $0.1-1~M_{\odot}$.
- 4. The IMF is suggested to be universial by the observations in the solar neighborhood, which shows minimal variations in diffferent environments.
- 5. The thermal evolution of a pre-stellar cloud is vital to understand the variations of the IMF. The fragmentation mass scale is determined by the effective adiabatic index $\gamma_{\rm eff}\equiv d\log P/d\log \rho$, where $P$ is the pressure and $\rho$ is the density. $\gamma_{\rm eff}>1$: the temperature decreases as the cloud contracts, which leads to fragmentation. $\gamma_{\rm eff}<1$: cooling is inefficient and the cloud fragments into spherical cores.
- 6. The cloud-scale star formation can be quenched by ionization feedback caused by the expansion of HII regions. In metal-enriched environments ($Z\gtrsim 10^{-2}~Z_{\odot}$), numerous stars can be formed by fragmentation of the cloud, which results in the formation of a star cluster that spans the entire cloud scale. However, in low-metallicity environments with $Z\lesssim 10^{-3}~Z_{\odot}$, only a single or a few massive stars form inside the cloud instead of a star cluster. The subsequent star formation is suppressed by feedback from the central massive star(s).

## 7. [The universal variability of the stellar initial mass function probed by the TIMER survey](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.13355)

### 7.1 Introduction

- 1. > Massive quiescent ETGs can only provide information about the IMF over a very limited stellar mass range, from the Hydrogen burning limit $\approx 0.07~M_{\odot}$ to $\sim 1~M_{\odot}$, since stars more massive than that have long evolved into dark remnants.
- 2. The determination of the IMF in the high-mass regime has been generally limited to emission-line researches, particularly by comparing the ionizing flux of massive stars to the overall sterllar continuum.

## 8. [Probing supermassive black hole growth and its dependence on stellar mass and star-formation rate in low-redshift galaxies](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.13869)

### 8.1 Definition of specific Black Hole accretion rate $\lambda_{\mathrm{sBHAR}}$

$$
\lambda_{\mathrm{sBHAR}}=\frac{k_{\mathrm{bol}} L_{\mathrm{X}, \text { hard }}\left[\mathrm{erg} \mathrm{s}^{-1}\right]}{1.3 \cdot 10^{38}\left[\mathrm{erg} \mathrm{s}^{-1}\right] \times 0.002 \mathcal{M}_* / \mathcal{M}_{\odot}},
$$

## 9. [High count rate effects in event processing for XRISM/Resolve x-ray microcalorimeter](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.15588)

### 9.1 Introduction
- 1. > X-ray microcalorimeter is a device to convert the energy of incoming X-ray photons into heat and sense the temperature change of the thermometer cooled at a sub-K temperature.
- 2. The effect of high count rate: (1) X-ray pulses overlap each other due to the
slow thermal time constant; (2) for space applications, signal processing is performed onboard and only the characteristic values of pulses are downlinked to fit into the telemetry bandpass; (3) computational resources can limit the rate of processing; (4) these non-linear effects are further complicated by cross talks among multiple pixels.