---
prev: 
    text: "Why CSST under/over-estimated some photon z"
    link: "/Notes/Random/CSST-Photon-z"
next: 
    text: "Electromagnetic Spectrum"
    link: "/Notes/Random/Electromagnetic-Spectrum"
---
# BAO and RSD

## The connection between BAO and RSD

- 1. The BAO and RSD analyses are often performed together [Bautista et al. (2021)](https://doi.org/10.1093/mnras/staa2800).
- 2. The RSD analysis can be thought of as an enhanced BAO analysis [(ShapeFit)](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1475-7516/2021/12/054).
- 3. The classic BAO and RSD analyses compress the power spectrum data into similar observables, such as $\alpha$, $\alpha_{\bot}$, and $f\sigma_{8}$ [(ShapeFit)](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1475-7516/2021/12/054).
- 4. The classic approach treats $f\sigma_{8}$ as an independent quantity to be measured directly [(ShapeFit)](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1475-7516/2021/12/054).


## Why the RSD analysis can be thought of as an enhanced BAO analysis.
- 1. The RSD signal is degenerated with the anisotropy generated by the Alcock-Paczynski effect, which is mainly driven by the detection of BAO. Therefore, the better the BAO is resolved, the better $f\sigma_{8}$ is measured [Gil-Marín 2022](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1475-7516/2022/05/040).
- 2. RSD gives constraints on $\Omega_{m}$ (through $f(z)$) which are superseded by the excellent precision of the $\Omega_{m}$ determination from the Alcock-Paczyński effect of the BAO. This holds for any model leaving the late-time expansion history unchanged [Schöneberg 2022](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1475-7516/2022/11/039/meta)

## Some explanations

- 1. Alcock-Paczynski effect:

  When determining the redshift, a cosmology model should be assumed. Since you cannot assume a exactly correct cosmology model, the redshift you get is not exactly correct. The difference between the redshift you get and the real redshift is called Alcock-Paczynski effect.

- 2. BAO helps to resolve the Alcock-Paczynski effect:

  The BAO signal is degenerated with the Alcock-Paczynski effect. The scale of BAO is 150 Mpc, which can be used to reduce the Alcock-Paczynski effect.

- 3. RSD and Alcock-Paczynski effect are degenerated:

  The RSD signal originates from the peculiar velocity of galaxies. The peculiar velocity results in some distortion in the redshift space.