---
prev: fasle
next: false
---

# arXiv reading on November 30, 2023

## [1. On the nature of the ultraluminous X-ray source Holmberg II X-1](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.16243)

### Backgrounds on Ultralumious X-ray sources

- 1. Ultraluminous X-ray sources (ULXs) are off-nuclear point sources with X-ray luminosities ($L_{\mathrm{X}}> 10^{39}~\mathrm{erg/s}$) exceeding the Eddington limit of a stellar-mass black hole (BH, $10~M_{\odot}$).
- 2. The super-Eddington luminosity results from accretion onto a compact object.
- 3. The compact object was thought to be BHs whose mass range is $10-10^{5}~M_{\odot}$ (intermediate mass black hole, IMBH, Miller et al. 2004). However, there are some hints that at least some ULXs are powered by neutron stars (NSs), such as M82X-2(Bachettietal.2014),NGC5907ULX-1 (Fürstetal.2016)and NGC7793P13(Israeletal.2017).
- 4. ULX spectra are marked out by a curvature in the range $2-10~\mathrm{keV}$ and a soft excess below $2~\mathrm{keV}$.

### Technical details

- 1. > Filter out periods of high background by selecting intervals in the lightcurves of the RGS $1$, $2$ CCD $9$ with a count rate below $0.2~ \mathrm{ct/s}$.
- 2. > The background regions were chosen by selecting photons outside of $98\%$ of the
source point-spread-function.
- 3. > All the models take into account the absorption from the circumstellar and interstellar medium by using the *hot* model (with a gas temperature of $10^{−4}~ \mathrm{keV}$, which yields a quasi-neutral gas phase in **SPEX**)

## [2. O Corona, where art thou? eROSITA's view of UV-optical-IR variability-selected massive black holes in low-mass galaxies](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.16220)

### Backgrounds

- 1. Revealing the properties of massive black holes (MBHs, $M_{\mathrm{BH}}\approx 10^{4}-10^{7}~M_{\odot}$) in the nuclei of low-mass galaxies is crucial for understanding the formation and evolution of MBHs and their host galaxies.
- 2. The MBHs in low-mass galaxies are expected to have a relatively low accretion rate.
- 3. Optical spectroscopy is the main channel to select MBHs in low-mass galaxies. MBHs can be identified by the bright transient accretion events, such as tidal disruptions of stars. 
- 4. X-ray and radio searches are effective in the inefficient accretion regime, but the sample sizes are still small.

### Results and conclusions

- 1. Among sample of ∼ 200 ultraviolet, optical, or infrared (UVOIR) variability-selected MBHs, 17 are detected as MBHs. A large fraction of UVOIR variability-selected MBHs are X-ray faint and hence not detected by eROSITA.
- 2. The many non-detected MBHs are incompatible with standard disk-corona relations.
- 3. A possible scenario for the X-ray weekness for the UVOIR variability-selected MBHs ia that a canonical X-ray corona might be lacking in the majority of this population
of UVOIR-variability selected low-mass galaxies or that unusual accretion modes and spectral energy distributions are in place for MBHs in dwarf galaxies.